FACTS ABOUT CANNING AND PROCESSED FOOD! 

Zenkinns is here to debunk all your myths and predispositions regarding these topics.
 
WHAT IS PROCESSED FOOD? 
Everything Is a Process!
In the strictest definition of the term, anything you do to change a food's original form constitutes "processing." Food Insight, a food-industry information website, points out that foods have been "processed" by cooking, drying, salting, smoking and pickling since prehistoric times. Usually these techniques are used to either make a food safe to eat or to preserve a food so it remains edible for longer. Longevity and food safety are worthy goals, and the modern-day industry is remarkably good at them.
WHAT IS CANNING? 
A simple process of preserving processed food for a longer duration of time without losing its essential ingredients and nutrition value. 
CANNED FOOD? Food sterilized by heat in a closed, durable container such as tin and aluminum containers
Preserving the goodness with canning: easy handling, fast filling with low spoilage makes cans a natural choice for streamlined cost-efficient production & reliable distribution
Because food lasts longer at an ambient temperature and can be used as needed, there is considerably less waste & more delight for the customer

ZENKINNS is here to debunk the myths!
    • Canned food is readily available, simple to store and easy on the budget. But there are a number of myths about canned foods that are being passed around and these myths can be easily confused with facts. 
    • These myths sometimes make people think twice about whether or not canned food is the best choice as a method of preserving and consuming food.
    • We, at ZENKINNS want to hold the baton for this amazing innovative industry and are here to set the record straight! 
    • We reveal the top myths about canned food in general, followed by the myths and facts about canning your own food.  All of this will then be put into the context of prepping and long-term storage of canned foods.





Fact #1: Canned foods are NOT loaded with preservatives

The process of canning makes the use of preservatives unnecessary.  Canned food is heated to a high enough temperature and pressure that kills any bacteria that would pose a threat.  There is nothing added to the food other than desired sweeteners or seasoning.  As the food is canned, an airtight seal is formed that keeps bacteria out and freshness in.


Fact #2: Canned Foods are not nutritious compared to fresh or frozen

It’s definitely true that the most nutritious food is fresh food.  The sooner it is eaten after being harvested or killed, the higher the nutritional content of the food.  Cooking can also cause some nutritional losses from some foods.  However, canned foods, particularly those that are canned close to harvest, retain the majority of their nutrients.
Canned foods retain their full fiber and protein content, effects on carbohydrates and fatty acids are negligible, and there are only minor losses to some vitamins.  In fact, canning some fruits and vegetables increases their nutritional impact.

Fact #3: Canned foods are Processed foods

If you think about it, as soon as you cook any food, you are processing it.  Roasting a chicken, boiling potatoes, baking bread are all methods of processing the food into a form in which we can/prefer to eat it.  Canned foods are really no more processed than regular cooked foods.  The primary difference is that they are cooked at higher temperatures and pressures and then vacuum-sealed.


Fact #4: Canned foods taste bad!

Let’s face it.  The taste of a can of peaches is delightful.  Yum! Similarly, is the taste of cooked Rajma (red beans). Canned foods, when canned at the height of ripeness and soon after harvest or cooking process, retain their flavor at least until their expiry date and longer if properly stored in cool, dry environment.

Fact #5: Canned foods have high sodium content

It’s true that canned foods often have salt in them.  However, this is not required for the canning and preservation of these foods.  Salt is added simply for the benefit of flavor in just the same way you would add salt to your French fries or a bowl of soup. There are plenty of low-sodium options when it comes to canned foods.
